# To Do List
To Do List is task management application. Users create a task in the app, they can add a description of the task if they so please. The can also add a priority level to each task so they can know which task in most important. An image of the can also be assigned to the task. This could be a picture of an already written shopping list or even a picture of the task such a garden that needs mowing.
# Motivation
This app is the assignment for my Mobile App Development 1 module in my Information Technology degree. I found inspiration in the Google Tasks app which I use personally and find very useful and user-friendly with its minimalist design. The main colour I used for my app was a light red, #FF5858. I feel the colour looks good on the white background. On top of this, I feel as though it has a distinctiveness that makes the user remember the application and makes the app stand out in a positive way. While researching and testing different colour with people, I found the most found the colour memorable, clean, and appropriate for a mobile app, especially for one about task management. As my app is a productivity app, I wanted to avoid the use of any bright luminous colours that may be common to more entertainment or gaming-based apps. My idea for this was heavily drawn from Google Tasks. The simple design and colour scheme focus the user on the tasks to be completed. I found with some other task management apps I used in thinking about the design that many used very dark colours. For task management I found this unappealing. While I enjoy using dark mode on many apps such as Twitter, YouTube, and Twitch, I found clear bright colour more appropriate and improving of clearness for task management apps.
# Design
## Icon
An important part of an app is it recognizability, this is achieved in large part though it’s icon. I drew inspiration for the icon of my app from apps like Apple Music and YouTube. Both have very simple designs, and both tell you what the app is about. Apple Music with its single bar note, immediately tells the user or potential user that this app is for music. The simple white background that most would associate with Apple paired with the purple, red and blue gradient on the single bar not make the app instantly recognizable when looking at the page.
Following on from this I decided to go with a light red I use inside the app, #FF5858. This associates the workings and processes of the app with the app icon bringing the idea of using the app to the users home screen. The simple white tick indicates clearly, like Apple Music’s single bar note, what the app is about, task management. I also believe associating a positive symbol such as the tick makes the user associate positive thoughts towards the app and would therefore make them want to use it.
In addition to this, the red stands out amongst the other predominantly blue, grey and white apps sharing the screens as a no nonsense, get-it-done productivity app.
## Placeholders and cleanliness
Before adding an image to the task, a place holder image of the app icon would be displayed below the Add Image button and in the place of where the added image would be. I thought it would make the app cleaner and improve the visual design to remove this placeholder when there was no image.
## Check box
An important feature I wanted to add to my app was a checkbox to complete or clear off a task when pressed. I wanted the user to be able to check off the task from where they were viewing the task. My inspiration for this was from Google Tasks which has a circle button next to each task that completes and clears the task when pressed.
## Kotlin intuitiveness and RelativeLayout
Through the development I ingored the yellow warning appearing in the code. Then, while cleaning up the positioning of the items on the task card I decided to read them. The warning recommend using toEndOf instead of toRightOf for postioning items in relation to one another to better support right-to-left layouts. As well, the title could expand and overlap the check box button due to localised text expansion.
# Features I want to add
## Registration and login
I wanted to add a registration and login in system for the app. I made the layout as are show below, they are still in the file. The buttons and text fields corresponded with a class called LoginActivity, this class would sort which view to show and would deal with passing the information to a helper class called DatabaseHelper. This helper class uses SQLite to create a table for the users. When the user first registers it adds to the table. Then when the user wants to login it compares the information entered with the store details in the SQLite database. I got the layouts and activity to work in a separate project, but I could not incorporate them into my app.
# Readability
I made sure that variables had appropriate and descriptive name as we learned in Programming Fundamentals in previous years. This is so it’s easy to know what the variable is used for and where is it being used, not just for the developer but for anyone who may develop the app in the future.
# Testing
To test my app, I used GenyMotion. I tried to use the emulator built into AndroidStudio but my CPU does not support required features (VT-x or SVM). After some small troubleshooting setting up the shell it started working. I found GenyMotion very quick and easy to use and it helped me a lot in my development. A problem I encountered though was not being able to get Google Play Services to work on the emulator.
# Author
Kieran Ward
